[NFC][SYCLomatic][DOC]Add FAQ for synchronization in loop/condition statement (#1258)
oneapi-src/SYCLomatic: docs/dev_guide/frequently-asked-questions-faq.rst

* `How do I use the migrated module file in the new project?`_
* `Is the memory space allocated by sycl::malloc_device, sycl::malloc_host, and dpct::dpct_malloc initialized?`_
* `How do I migrate CUDA\* source code that contains CUB library implementation source code?`_

> * `How do I fix the hang issue of sycl code caused by work group level synchronization like group barrier used in conditional statement?`_

Reviewer: How do I fix the issue of SYCL* code hanging due to work group level synchronization, such as a group barrier used in a conditional statement?

Author: Add a backslash before*, It seem that "*" would be used as a control character.
Please double conform.

Reviewer: Looks good to me.

your migration by adding ``--in-root-exclude=<path to CUB library source code>``
to your migration command.

> How do I fix the migrated code in case barrier is used conditional statement?

Reviewer 2: "in" conditional statement

*****************************************************************************

> If the migration code you are running uses synchronization within conditional/loop

Reviewer 2: If the original code you are migrating calls sychronization APIs within control flow statements like conditional/loop, you may encounter runtime issues like a process hang with the migrated code. It is essential to ensure that each sychronization point is either skipped by all the work_items or visited by all the work_items in the same sub_group. If a sychronization point is visited by some work_items and skiped(due to different evaluation result of the predicate statement) by other work_items, the queue will stuck at current task and cause the process hang.

statements, you may encounter issues like hang or runtime_error. It is essential
to ensure that all work_items within a sub_group must be encountered synchronization 
points in converged control flow.

Here are some examples.

> Barrier is used in conditional statements. The following original code:

Reviewer 2: In the first example, nd_item.barrier() is used inside a if block and the evaluation results of the conditional statement differs in each thread. The following is the original code:

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

>    // original code

Reviewer 3: original code ==> migrated code?

            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 32];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 32];
         }
         item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 16]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 16];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 16];
         }
         item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 8]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 8];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 8];
         }
         item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 4]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 4];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 4];
         }
         item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 2]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 2];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 2];
         }
         item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 1]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 1];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 1];
         }
         item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
      }
   }

> is adjusted to move the synchronization statement outside of the 

Reviewer 2: The following manually-adjusted code shows how to fix the hang issue by moving the synchronization statement out of the if block.

      if (tid < 32) {
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 16]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 16];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 16];
         }
      }
      item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
      if (tid < 32) {
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 8]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 8];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 8];
         }
      }
      item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
      if (tid < 32) {
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 4]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 4];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 4];
         }
      }
      item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
      if (tid < 32) {
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 2]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 2];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 2];
         }
      }
      item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
      if (tid < 32) {
         if (sdata[tid] < sdata[tid + 1]) {
            ind[tid] = ind[tid + 1];
            sdata[tid] = sdata[tid + 1];
         }
      }
      item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
      }
   }

> Barrier is used in loop statements. The following original code:

Reviewer 3: original code ==> migrated code?

> Barrier is used in loop statements. The following original code:

Reviewer 2: The second example demonstrates how to fix the hang issue when a synchronization statement is used in a for loop in the original code:

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   // original code

   void compute(int np, int nd, const sycl::nd_item<3> &item_ct1) {
      unsigned int curr_particle =
         item_ct1.get_group(2) * item_ct1.get_local_range(2) +
         item_ct1.get_local_id(2);
      for (; curr_particle < np; curr_particle +=
         item_ct1.get_group_range(2) * item_ct1.get_local_range(2)) {
         ...
         item_ct1.barrier();
         ...
      }
   }

> is adjusted to fix the conditional in loop statement, let all thread

Reviewer 2: The following is the manually-adjusted code of moving the synchronization statement out of the for loop.

your migration by adding ``--in-root-exclude=<path to CUB library source code>``
to your migration command.

> How do I fix the sycl code in case synchronized block is used in conditional statement?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
How do I fix the hang issue of sycl code cased by work group level synchronization like group barrier used in conditional statement?

```

your migration by adding ``--in-root-exclude=<path to CUB library source code>``
to your migration command.

> How do I fix the hang issue of sycl code caused by work group level synchronization like group barrier used in conditional statement?

Reviewer: How do I fix the issue of SYCL* code hanging due to work group level synchronization, such as a group barrier used in a conditional statement?

Author: same of the above

*************************************************************************************************************************************

> In SYCL code, if there is calling of synchronization API in control flow statements

Reviewer: If synchronization API in control flow statements like a conditional statement and loop statement are called in SYCL code, you may encounter a runtime hang issue.
The basic idea to fix the hang issue is to ensure that each synchronization API is
either reached by all work items of a workgroup, or skipped by all the work items of
a workgroup.

Here are two examples of how to fix: 

In the first example, the synchronization API group barrier(nd_item.barrier()) is called
inside an if block. The evaluation results of the conditional statement differs in
each work item so not all work items can reach the synchronization API.

Author: has fixed

Author: I made a change
"The evaluation results of the conditional statement differs in" ==> "The evaluation results of the conditional statement differ in"
please double check. Thanks

How do I fix the hang issue of sycl code cased by work group level synchronization like group barrier used in conditional statement?
************************************************************************************************************************************

In SYCL code, if there is calling of synchronization API in control flow statements
like conditional statement and loop statement, you may encounter runtime hang issue.
The basic idea to fix the hang issue is to ensure that each synchronization API is
either reached by all work items of a workgroup or skipped by all the work items of
a workgroup.

Here are two fix examples for reference:

In the first example, synchronization API group barrier(nd_item.barrier()) is called
inside an if block and the evaluation results of the conditional statement differs in
each work item, not all work items can reach the synchronization API.

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   // original code

   void kernel(const sycl::nd_item<3> &item_ct1) {
      unsigned int tid = item_ct1.get_local_id(2);
      if (tid < 32) {
         ...
         item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
         ...
      }
   }

> The following manually-adjusted code shows how to fix the hang issue

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following code shows how to fix the hang issue

```

> or crash by moving the synchronization statement out of the if block.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
by moving the synchronization statement out of the if block.

```

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   // fixed SYCL code

   void kernel(const sycl::nd_item<3> &item_ct1) {
      unsigned int tid = item_ct1.get_local_id(2);
      if (tid < 32) {
         ...
      }
      item_ct1.barrier(sycl::access::fence_space::local_space);
      if (tid < 32) {
         ...
      }
   }

The second example demonstrates how to fix the hang issue when
a synchronization API is used in a for loop:

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   // original code

   void compute(int id_space, const sycl::nd_item<3> &item_ct1) {
      unsigned int id =
         item_ct1.get_group(2) * item_ct1.get_local_range(2) +
         item_ct1.get_local_id(2);
      for (; id < id_space; id +=
         item_ct1.get_group_range(2) * item_ct1.get_local_range(2)) {
         ...
         item_ct1.barrier();
         ...
      }
   }

> The following is the manually adjusted code which ensures all work

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following code shows how to fix the hang issue by making sure all work

```

items has same run footprint in the for loop.

.. code-block:: cpp
   :linenos:

   // fixed SYCL code

   void compute(int id_space, const sycl::nd_item<3> &item_ct1) {
      unsigned int id =
         item_ct1.get_group(2) * item_ct1.get_local_range(2) +
         item_ct1.get_local_id(2);
      unsigned int num_workitem = 
               item_ct1.get_group_range(2) * item_ct1.get_local_range(2);

>       // The condition is rounded up to an integer multiple of the num of work items

Reviewer 4: the condition is updated to make sure all work items can enter the loop body in each iteration
